---
title: Final exam info
description: assignment
keywords: 
category: assignments
layout: blog
---

For assessment rubrics and schedule, see the Unit III rubric (link above).

The first final exam slot for each section will be a dictation exam. It will include *melodic dictation*, *harmonic dictation*, and a brief *harmonic syntax* quiz. This quiz will be your last opportunity to raise your harmonic syntax score, and it will follow the same format as the Learning Catalytics quizzes in Unit II (though it may be on paper—I haven't decided yet). Be sure to bring staff paper and a pencil to the exam. Plan for using the whole 2-hour slot, though we will likely take less time than that. There will be a break between the melodic and harmonic dictations. Also, I highly recommend you arrive early and sing/play through various patterns in order to wake your ear/brain up and to prime those patterns for quicker, more accurate recall.

The second final exam slot will be a formal analysis of 2 or 3 pop/rock songs, using Variations Audio Timeliner. Bring your laptop, or plan on using a lab computer. Bring your headphones.

For both exams, you are free to use any written resource. You cannot use each other, and you cannot use the keyboards, though. I will be assessing what you can do by ear, without instruments.

If you need to reassess anything from earlier in the semester, please do so soon. The last day for reassessments is Wednesday, May 1. Make an appointment with me ahead of time, so you can be assured the opportunity to perform the reassessment.